you're watching our reminder of our top
stories this hour France has called for
an immediate and doable truce in Gaza
following the killing of one of its
staff members in the strip he was killed
in an air strike in the southern city of
Rafa where Israeli attacks have
intensified Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu is facing more
pressure from the families of those
still being held captive in Gaza it
follows The Accidental killing of three
captives by the Israeli military and
crowds have scrambled to get Aid at the
Rafa Crossing between Gaza and Egypt the
UN says hunger has spiraled across the
strip in recent
days going to bring in Maran Bashar Al
jaz's senior political analyst let's
talk about the situation that Benjamin
Netanyahu is finding himself in at the
moment it it would be easy to assume
that there is growing pressure inside
and out on Benjamin Netanyahu but the
question of course is how much is he
actually willing to respond to that we
are hearing there is a possibility of
negotiations or an exploration of
possible negotiations by the the the
head of mosad what's your your take on
all of this what's your assessment of
what's going on well let's start with
the beginning that we have a prime
minister the longest serving prime
minister in Israel Benjamin
Netanyahu he was indicted on a number of
corruption charges he's basically a
political Criminal come war
criminal but he's certainly
persistent uh he's a seasoned politician
a political animal of sort
and he's not easily swayed he's also
supported by uh the most fanatical and
the most fascistic uh Coalition in
Israel's
history and him and his uh fascist
Coalition remain persistent about this
war and its goals which is basically
destroying Gaza and defeating Hamas
because from the outset
the Prime Minister and his president Mr
Herzog and his defense minister Mr
Galant made it clear that there is
intent behind the war crimes behind the
genocide the intent was that there are
no Innocents in Gaza that the people in
Gaza are Political Animals that should
be slapped with Collective punishment to
be starved to be denied electricity to
be denied fuel to be denied medicine and
so on so forth and for the past 10 weeks
Natan who led the war against Gaza
decimating it and now he is insistent
that it will probably take two three
months more of the same of the same
basically rendering it
unlivable the
Americans as well as the British and the
Germans are urging him not to take three
months two months but you take two weeks
three weeks of more of the same so let's
not be mistaken about the Western
position here the German British and
American position has been for the past
10 weeks complicit in the war crimes in
Gaza totally unconditionally supportive
of
Netanyahu and now the change of heart is
not a change of position they're simply
asking him not to make that genocide
look so
vulgar not to make it so embarrassing to
their public opinion they wanted to be
tidier a bit
more attractive to their public opinion
hence they asking him to phase
out this intensive bombing of Gaza to
something a bit more discriminate which
begs the question why were they
supporting 10 weeks of indiscriminate
bombing in the wordss of the American
president indiscriminate bombing why
would Western leaders until today and
moving forward continue to support
Netanyahu in the indiscriminate
decimation of Gaza hence Netanyahu while
coming under some
acrobatic verbal pressure of some sort
but he's not coming under any real
pressure whatsoever because and I just
finish with that the Americans continue
to supply him with weapons they compl to
supp to supply him with money and they
continue to supply him with political
cheat including at the United Nations I
want to ask you about the pictures we've
seen of of Aid trucks going into Gaza
through the the the Rafa Crossing um
we've been talking for a long time about
the the the incredible pressures and
frustrations um and risks to to health
that people in Gaza are facing because
of the bombardment but also because of
the decimation of the infrastructure and
there's an argument for saying that the
pictures that we're seeing where people
have been rushing towards these trucks
desperate to get hold of that a is is an
indication of just the kind of of
desperation that people are facing it is
incredible unprecedented in recent
modern times for people to be subjective
to the kind of uh war crimes to the to
the collective punishment that Gaza has
been subjected to we've read in Western
reports comparison been made with Second
World War Allied bombing of German
cities over two years with German Nazi
bombings of British cities over two
years and that doesn't even begin to
compare with the Israeli bombing of Gaza
and the result has been the total
Destruction of the Civil infrastructure
for 2.2 2.3 million Palestinians which
means we're not just talking about
starvation now we're not just talking
about the lack of medical treatment
we're starting to talk about
diseases and when you start talking
about disease in a people that
crammed into the most
intolerable density in refugee camps
with no infrastructure whatsoever we are
talking about mass murder now and if
this is going to continue for another
whether two weeks or two months this is
going to
mean the inhalation of gazans and until
and
unless they run for their life either to
the Mediterranean Sea or across the
border with Sinai to to Egypt which
means ethnic cleansing which was the
original objective of this Netanyahu
government the ethnically cleansing of
Gaza so now we are between basically two
nightmares one nightmare is the utter
breakdown of the entire possibility of
life in Gaza or mass ethnic cleansing
and once again the nany government is
doing the evil work but it is today and
moving
forward
supported by Major Western Powers this
is a dark moment in modern history
because those are
democracies they answer to their people
that means their people are just as
responsible CU let's all remember this
whole thing started by the Israeli
leaders saying that all Gaza is
responsible what Hamas did in October 7
which means the other side of the coin
is that Israel and
Israelis are responsible for what
happened since October 7th meaning the
war crimes and the genocide which also
means that Western public opinion that
Western populations that that their
governments are supporting this genocide
are also complicit in the war crimes in
Gaza M bashara thank you very much
indeed